# Contributing to Measurement Services Support for Python

Contributions to Measurement Services Support for Python are welcome from all!

Measurement Services Support for Python is managed via [git](https://git-scm.com), with the canonical upstream
repository hosted on [GitHub](https://github.com/ni/measurement-services-python/). The repo contains the necessary Python Measurement templates and examples to call into the Measurement Services.

Measurement Services Support for Python follows a pull-request model for development.  If you wish to
contribute, you will need to create a GitHub account, fork this project, push a
branch with your changes to your project, and then submit a pull request.

Please remember to sign off your commits (e.g., by using `git commit -s` if you
are using the command-line client). This amends your git commit message with a line
of the form `Signed-off-by: Name LastName <name.lastmail@emailaddress.com>`. Please
include all authors of any given commit into the commit message with a
`Signed-off-by` line. This indicates that you have read and signed the Developer
Certificate of Origin (see below) and can legally submit your code to
this repository.

See [GitHub's official documentation](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/) for more details.

# Getting Started

## Prerequisites

- Install the Visual Code.
- Install Git.
- Install [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/docs/#installation).
- Install Python and add it to the PATH. (Recommended Version:3.8)

## Clone Repo

Clone the repo, this will pull the NI Measurement Service Framework components and related components.

```cmd
git clone https://github.com/ni/measurement-services-python.git
```

## Initializing the repo with .venv

From the root directory of the repo, initialize the project using the [poetry init](https://python-poetry.org/docs/cli/#init) command. This will set up a .venv with all the required dependencies based on poetry.lock file and pyproject.toml.

```cmd
poetry init 
```

## Ensure that the `./.venv` virtual environment is activated

- In command prompt: `poetry shell`
- In vscode ([link](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/python/environments#_select-and-activate-an-environment))
- ALTERNATIVE: run commands with `poetry run`. I.e., `poetry run python measurement.py`

# Adding dependencies

Add dependency package for `ni_measurement_service`  using [poetry add](https://python-poetry.org/docs/cli/#add) command.

```cmd
poetry add <name_of_dependency>:<version>
```

Add **development dependencies** with the `-D` switch as shown below.

```cmd
poetry add -D <name_of_dev_dependency>:<version>
```

# Updating Stubs when protobuf file modifies

`ni_measurement_service\_internal\stubs` directory contains the auto-generated python file based on measurement service and related protobuf(.proto) files. The file needs to be replaced whenever there is a change in the following protobuf files:

- DiscoveryServices.proto
- Measurement.proto
- ServiceLocation.proto
- ServiceManagement.proto

This command generates the py file from all the above-listed proto files.

```cmd
python -m grpc_tools.protoc -I proto --python_out=. --grpc_python_out=. ServiceLocation.proto DiscoveryServices.proto Measurement.proto ServiceManagement.proto 
```

After the files are autogenerated change the imports of xxxx_pb2.py in xxxx_pb2_grpc.py to relative imports. For example, in `DiscoveryServices_pb2_grpc.py` we convert the imports of `DiscoveryServices_pb2` and `ServiceLocation_pb2` as relative imports.

``` py
# DiscoveryServices_pb2_grpc.py
from . import DiscoveryServices_pb2 as DiscoveryServices__pb2
from . import ServiceLocation_pb2 as ServiceLocation__pb2
```

# Build

```cmd
poetry build
```

Running this command from the repo's root directory will generate the tar.gz file and .whl file of ni_measurement_service package to the `dist` directory.

# Testing

TODO: include testing steps here.

# Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO)

   Developer's Certificate of Origin 1.1

   By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

   (a) The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I
       have the right to submit it under the open-source license
       indicated in the file; or

   (b) The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best
       of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate open source
       license and I have the right under that license to submit that
       work with modifications, whether created in whole or in part
       by me, under the same open-source license (unless I am
       permitted to submit under a different license), as indicated
       in the file; or

   (c) The contribution was provided directly to me by some other
       person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified
       it.

   (d) I understand and agree that this project and the contribution
       are public and that a record of the contribution (including all
       personal information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is
       maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with
       this project or the open source license(s) involved.

(taken from [developercertificate.org](https://developercertificate.org/))

See [LICENSE](https://github.com/ni/measurement-services-python/blob/master/LICENSE)
for details about how Measurement Services Support for Python is licensed.
